---
published: false
---
## Blog2

### Weekly Technoogical Excursion : Docker & WSL2

This week we were tasked with cloning a git repository, and displaying a webpage using Docker. I'll talk about my experience.

#### Docker
Where to being? I geuss the best place to start is with Docker and what it is. Docker is a software... Okay there's a little more. Docker is a set of platform as a service products, PaaS, that use OS-level virtualization to deliver software in packages called containers. The containers are isolated from each other and bundle their own software libraries, and configuration files, while also communicating with one another through the proper channels. Containers allow a developer to package up an application with all of the parts it needs, such as libraries and other dependencies, and deploy it as one package.

#### Unknown Issues with Lab1 | WSL2
Well Lab1 started off rocky. In order to download Docker, I needed the most up to date version of Windows, which is Windows 10 2004. Once the 2 hour update was complete, I was finally able to download Docker Desktop. From there I ran into another issue. To open up a Windows container in Docker, I needed Windows Enterprise or Pro. *Insert Sad Face* "Well you coudl've just ran a virtual machine with the correct requirements and done the lab through there", and yes, I could have. But I wasn't about to give up. After a bit of researching, and noticing that the lab is done in Ubuntu, I recalled that Windows now has the ability to run Linux distros! How dope is that! It's like the movie Inception, but with operating systems. The Ubuntu distro is on the Microsoft Store, so a simple installation. 

Wow! I could begin my lab! Ehh not really... That's when I found out that in order for Docker to run on my Ubuntu, the Windows Subsystem for Linux needed to be updated from version 1 to version 2. 

##### How to Install and Run The Windows Subsystem for Linux

* Step 1 - Enable the Windows Subsystem for Linux
	* Open PowerShell as Administrator and run: dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart
    
* Step