---
published: true
---
## Blog 0-SP21 

#### What is Github Actions?

Github Actions is essentially a platform to automate development workflows. When researching this topic, I've come to realise that Github Actions is not just a CI/CD Pipeline tool, it automates many other developer workflows, but it's definitely best known for the CI/CD Pipeline use. What kind of workflows? Good question, and to simply answer it any workflow that is tedious and time consuming. Github Actions work in a way so whenever something happens in or to you project repository, a Github Event is triggered. Events like a pull request, issue & errors in code, a new contributor joining in, etc, all are considered an event. Then a preset action is executed as a response to the event. To break it down even further, you listen to an event, then an automatic workflow is triggered. Actions like, sort, label, assign, etc.

### CI/CD Pipeline with Github Actions

Probably one of the most common use cases for Github Actions, is the wonderful CI/CD Pipeline. You commit you code, test it, build the code into something, push that thing into storage, then deploys the thing you made on deployment server. There are many CI/CD pipeline-esque tools, but Github Actions is easily compatible with your repository.  The actual setup of the pipeline, in considered to be more easy. I've never done it, but I will for my project so wish me luck :). In the real world, developer use this tool so that they dont have to hire a developer to simply manage the pipeline. Woah the robots are replacing the developers now! It's greatest strength is integration with multiple tools, and combination uses.
	
### How It Works (explained by someone who hasn't done it themselves... yet) 

From what I've seen on the interwebs, this that you create actions within your repositories, with a textfile or two, call workflows. These workflows automate common build tasks. Then actions are used to compress images, test code, push to the host. This is done by creating a series of YAML files, stored in the .github workflows folder in your repo, that contain a series of actions that determine your flow in the repo. More info in the next blog...

	
    


- Cidney Marbella