---
published: false
---
## Blog 6-SP21


### Github Workflows: Continous Deployment to Github Pages

So this week, I worked on two major items for my group's Class Companion web application. Those two major items would be, our continous deployment to Github Pages, and our AWS RDB. This week's blog will be going over the workflow :)

Like explained in previous blogs, continous deployment is part of the CI/CD pipeline. Whereas, CI is the software development practice of regularly integrating code changes into a shared code repository.
CD allows you to automatically deploy live, every changes that pass the CI. 

#### Github Pages

There's alot of different ways to deploy our site, but we used Github pages so the the setup time is faster. It's faster because it's already built into our platform. In fancier context, Github Pages is a static site hosting service that takes all your HTML, CSS, and js files from your repository on Github, and runs the files through a build process, and publishes a website. 

#### Process of Building the Workflow

Well initially, like usual I had no idea what I was doing. I looked up a community Github Action and found the crazy-max/ghaction-github-pages workflow. 


	   name: Deploy to GitHub Pages
        if: success()
        uses: crazy-max/ghaction-github-pages@v2
        with:
          target_branch: gh-pages
          build_dir: public
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          
          
But it would continously fail and put out this error "error: src refspec prod does not match any". After debuging fo a few hours, we never figured it out. Documentation wasn't as explanative as I had hoped. All we needed to do was point the Github pages to a specific branch, then on every push to a certain branch, specified files in our "dev" branch, will be moved to the our Github pages specified branch. 

	jobs:
  build-deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
        with:
          ref: dev

      - name: Install dependencies & compile code
        run: |
          npm install
          npm run build
          ls -la
      - name: Build dist directory
        run: |
          mkdir dist
          mv .gitignore dist
          mv README.md dist
          mv assets dist
          mv index.html dist
          mv public dist
          mv style.css dist
          ls -la
      - name: Upload dist artifact
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2
        with:
          name: dist
          path: ./dist
          retention-days: 1

      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
        with:
          ref: prod

      - name: Download dist artifact
        uses: actions/download-artifact@v2
        with:
          name: dist
          path: ~/dist

      - name: Move dist into current directory
        run: |
          mv ~/dist ./
          ls -la
      # Configures git credentials before pushing up to target branch
      - name: Package new compiled code & deploy to target branch
        run: mv .git dist
      
      - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages
        if: success()
        uses: crazy-max/ghaction-github-pages@v2
        with:
          target_branch: prod
          build_dir: dist
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          
Made a few changes changes to the code, forcing it to make a directory called "dist" within the container. Then moving all the required files to that directory. Then we used "actions/artifact@v2" to upload that data. Switched branches, to our deploy branch, "prod" and made it download the data using the actions/download-artifact@v2. Then boom, we got our static site up. It was quite a battle but with Brian's help, we got it working!

	