---
published: true
---
## Blog 4-SP21

### Amazon Aurora : Overview

For this week, keeping in line with my project research, we'll be covering AWS's Amazon Aurora. Upon completeion of some Github Action workflows, I will be handling the Amazon Aurora. Whatever that means. Well I'll tell ya what that Amazon Aurora is all about.

Amazon Aurora is a relational database built for the cloud environment; compatible with MySQL and PostgresSQL. It is known for its high availability and open source characteristics. Making it a double edge relational database sword. 

Aurora pulls ahead the standard MySQL and PostgeSQL, in terms of speed. Being an Amazon AWS tool, it was built with not only speed in mind, but also security, and cost-efficiency. In addition, it works with AWS's Amazon Relational Database Service, automates traditional, time consuming, database management tasks. 

In terms of storage features, Amazon Aurora has a fault-tolerant, self healing system. Capable of auto scaling up to 128TB, per instance! 

### Usecases

Typically there are many use cases for many of AWS products. Same applies to Amazon Aurora. 

For use in enterprise applications, just as a commercial database, it will reduce your operational costs drastically. Aswell as automating managed tasks such as provisioning, patching, backup, recovery, failure detection, and repair. This will be the our projects main use for Amazon Aurora.

For use with Software as a Service Applications, Amazon Aurora shines with a great deal of felxibility of aut scaling instances and the storage within those instances. Again the Amazon Relational Database Service, automates the operational tasks needed in database management.

### Serverless

What if your project is so light weight, it might not need an entire instance? There's always the serverless route! I'm talking about Amazon Aurora Serverless. Amazon Aurora is the on demand version. It starts up, shuts down, and scales storage capacity based on application needs. Another possible option for my group project!


